

Home remodeling 
================

Marius Buliga (chorasimilarity)

**also available:** 
<https://telegra.ph/Home-remodeling-04-28>


Once, when Eve was a France resident in Combray, she stumbled upon a
Home Remodeling site. She learned that she could hire a pro to find all
the essential remodeling information she\'ll need to know.

Eve used the same fast legacy digital internet to order a remodeling
pro. Two days later Eve received an executable recipe for a cookie and a
herbal tea, with the address of an old man living not far.

The man had ancient memories, from before the chemical sneakernet. His
mind was badly damaged by age, which was a good thing, because Eve could
easily run her remodeling plans on it.

Eve ran the cookie and tea recipes, took a fast legacy digital
connection to her Venter-to-real compiler and paid a visit to the old
man. Her sniffer ring was on her finger, as usually, ready to collect
the needed chemical information from her surrounding.

He lived in a lower income apartment in a Chinese built dorm
neighborhoord. In front of his apartment at the 37th floor, Eve
sprinkled herself with an Universal Mother odor. The old man program was
as precise as a mechanical clock device. He was about to come home from
his regular walk.

Here are the old man recollections of this visit.



\"Many years had elapsed during which nothing of Combray, save what was
comprised in the theatre and the drama of my going to bed there, had any
existence for me, when one day in winter, on my return home, my mother,
seeing that I was cold, offered me some tea, a thing I did not
ordinarily take. I declined at first, and then, for no particular
reason, changed my mind. She sent for one of those squat, plump little
cakes called \"petites madeleines,\" which look as though they had been
moulded in the fluted valve of a scallop shell. And soon, mechanically,
dispirited after a dreary day with the prospect of a depressing morrow,
I raised to my lips a spoonful of the tea in which I had soaked a morsel
of the cake. No sooner had the warm liquid mixed with the crumbs touched
my palate than a shudder ran through me and I stopped, intent upon the
extraordinary thing that was happening to me. An exquisite pleasure had
invaded my senses, something isolated, detached, with no suggestion of
its origin. And at once the vicissitudes of life had become indifferent
to me, its disasters innocuous, its brevity illusory - this new
sensation having had on me the effect which love has of filling me with
a precious essence; or rather this essence was not in me it *was* me. I
had ceased now to feel mediocre, contingent, mortal. Whence could it
have come to me, this all-powerful joy? I sensed that it was connected
with the taste of the tea and the cake, but that it infinitely
transcended those savours, could, no, indeed, be of the same nature.
Whence did it come? What did it mean? How could I seize and apprehend
it?

I drink a second mouthful, in which I find nothing more than in the
first, then a third, which gives me rather less than the second. It is
time to stop; the potion is losing it magic. It is plain that the truth
I am seeking lies not in the cup but in myself. The drink has called it
into being, but does not know it, and can only repeat indefinitely, with
a progressive diminution of strength, the same message which I cannot
interpret, though I hope at least to be able to call it forth again and
to find it there presently, intact and at my disposal, for my final
enlightenment. I put down the cup and examine my own mind. It alone can
discover the truth. But how: What an abyss of uncertainty, whenever the
mind feels overtaken by itself; when it, the seeker, is at the same time
the dark region through which it must go seeking and where all its
equipment will avail it nothing. Seek? More than that: create. It is
face to face with something which does not yet exist, to which it alone
can give reality and substance, which it alone can bring into the light
of day.

And I begin to ask myself what it could have been, this unremembered
state which brought with it no logical proof, but the indisputable
evidence, of its felicity, its reality, and in whose presence other
states of consciousness melted and vanished. I decide to attempt to make
it reappear. I retrace my thoughts to the moment at which I drank the
first spoonful of tea. I rediscover the same state, illuminated by no
fresh light. I ask my mind to make one further effort, to bring back
once more the fleeting sensation. And so that nothing may interrupt it
in its course I shut out every obstacle, every extraneous idea, I stop
my ears and inhibit all attention against the sound from the next room.
And then, feeling that my mind is tiring itself without having any
success to report, I compel it for a change to enjoy the distraction
which I have just denied it, to think of other things, to rest refresh
itself before making a final effort. And then for the second time I
clear an empty space in front of it; I place in position before my
mind\'s eye the still recent taste of that first mouthful, and I feel
something start within me, something that leaves its resting-place and
attempts to rise, something that has been embedded like an anchor at a
great depth; I do not know yet what it is, but I can feel it mounting
slowly; I can measure the resistance, I can hear the echo of great
spaces traversed.

Undoubtedly what is thus palpitating in the depths of my being must be
the image, the visual memory which, being linked to that taste, is
trying to follow it into my conscious mind. But its struggles are too
far off, too confused and chaotic; scarcely can I perceive the neutral
glow into which the elusive whirling medley of stirred-up colours is
fused, and I cannot distinguish its form, cannot invite it, as the one
possible interpreter, to translate for me the evidence of its
contemporary, its inseparable paramour, the taste, cannot ask it to
inform me what special circumstance is in question, from what period in
my past life.

Will it ultimately reach the clear surface of my consciousness, this
memory, this old, dead moment which the magnetism of an identical moment
has traveled so far to importune, to disturb, to raise up out of the
very depths of my being? I cannot tell. Now I feel nothing; it has
stopped, has perhaps sunk back into its darkness, from which who can say
whether it will ever rise again? Ten times over I must essay the task,
must lean down over the abyss. And each time the cowardice that deters
us from every difficult task, every important enterprise, has urged me
to leave the thing alone, to drink my tea and to think merely of the
worries of to-day and my hopes for to-morrow, which can be brooded over
painlessly.

And suddenly the memory revealed itself. The taste was that of the
little piece of madeleine which on Sunday mornings at Combray (because
on those mornings I did not go out before mass), when I went to say good
morning to her in her bedroom , my aunt LÃ©onie used to give me, dipping
it first in her own cup of tea or tisane. The sight of the little
madeleine had recalled nothing to my mind before I tasted it; perhaps
because I had so often seen such things in the meantime, without tasting
them, on the trays in pastry-cooks\' windows, that their image had
dissociated itself from those Combray days to take its place among
others more recent; perhaps because of those memories, so long abandoned
and put out of mind, nothing now survived, everything was scattered; the
shapes of things, including that of the little scallop-shell of pastry,
so richly sensual under its severe, religious folds, were either
obliterated or had been so long dormant as to have lost the power of
expansion which would have allowed them to resume their place in my
consciousness. But when from a long-distant past nothing subsists, after
the people are dead, after the things are broken and scattered, taste
and smell alone, more fragile but more enduring, more unsubstantial,
more persistent, more faithful, remain poised a long time, like souls,
remembering, waiting, hoping, amid the ruins of all the rest; and bear
unflinchingly, in the tiny and almost impalpable drop of their essence,
the vast structure of recollection.

And as soon as I had recognized the taste of the piece of madeleine
soaked in her decoction of lime-blossom which my aunt used to give me
(although I did not yet know and must long postpone the discovery of why
this memory made me so happy) immediately the old grey house upon the
street, where her room was, rose up like a stage set to attach itself to
the little pavilion opening on to the garden which had been built out
behind it for my parents (the isolated segment which until that moment
had been all that I could see); and with the house the town, from
morning to night and in all weathers, the Square where I used to be sent
before lunch, the streets along which I used to run errands, the country
roads we took when it was fine. And as in the game wherein the Japanese
amuse themselves by filling a porcelain bowl with water and steeping in
it little pieces of paper which until then are without character or
form, but, the moment they become wet, stretch and twist and take on
colour and distinctive shape, become flowers or houses or people, solid
and recognizable, so in that moment all the flowers in our garden and in
M. Swann\'s park, and the water-lilies on the Vivonne and the good folk
of the village and their little dwellings and the parish church and the
whole of Combray and its surroundings, taking shape and solidity, sprang
into being, town and gardens alike, from my cup of tea.\"

When back home, Eve saw the the first signs of growth of her remodeling
project. The Venter-to-real compiler produced viable seeds. In a week or
two, Eve could announce a party in her new home.

Notes and credits:

\[1\] Eve is the same character as in the Internet of Smells

http://telegra.ph/Internet-of-Smells-04-26

\[2\] The old man recollections are of course, from the English
translation of the famous Proust\' madeleine cookie piece. I used:
**Remembrance of Things Past**. Volume 1: **Swann\'s Way**: Within a
Budding Grove.

The definitive French Pleiade edition translated by C.K. Scott Moncrieff
and Terence Kilmartin. New York: Vintage. pp. 48-51.

http://ww3.haverford.edu/psychology/ddavis/p109g/proust.html

\[3\] The Venter-to-real compiler is a relatively old technology, based
on a not too old version of Craig Venter\' Digital Biological Compiler
and chemlambda, appearing first in the chemlambda vision page

http://chorasimilarity.github.io/chemlambda-gui/dynamic/vision.html

\[4\] Eve herself has in her cells a synthetic ribosome version of the
old technology based on Venter-to-real compilers.

https://chorasimilarity.wordpress.com/2016/01/09/the-replicant/

However, her synthetic ribosomes are feasible for the interaction with
the chemical sneakernet, not for big remodeling of reality projects. For
those, the Venter-to-real compilers are better.



Marius Buliga, april 28 2017




